---
layout: post
title: "Dev Diary 8 – A Quick and Overdue Update"
date: 2020-08-19 00:00:00 -0400
author: /u/SeaOfGreedDevs
summary: "After nearly a year of woeful wahs of deck work and determination, we’ve found the captain’s log and its hidden treasure, ready to share some of that delicious booty once again."
description:
keywords:
---

After nearly a year of woeful wahs of deck work and determination, we’ve found the captain’s log and its hidden treasure, ready to share some of that delicious booty once again. We’ll be starting these semi-regular diaries up again to keep everyone in the community up to date on the latest news as Wally and the gang get closer to setting sail in a real release!

A sea change from the dev team came in with the tides with the new SOGcast. The podcast creates a space for conversations around and about the game. The second episode really rocked the boat with Caldwell Tanner, the man behind the iconic image that inspired an entire Sea of Greed, joining the show for a couple hours of memes:

- [SOGcast Episode 2 (feat. Caldwell Tanner)](https://youtu.be/RB5oe3o2PPQ)

The biggest general news for Sea of Greed though is how the team rewrote the entire code, shifting from 2D physics to full-on 3D. The conversation meant redoing a lot of work, but the effort is worth it for being able to make Wally’s adventure exactly what we want it to be.

The old systems were becoming a limiting factor, relying on perspective tricks and requiring close attention to what is layered on top of what. One mistake and nothing works. There was a ton of pressure and work just to make something “normal”.

To understand the problem, we first need to talk about parallel universes… or at least multiple dimensions. With 2D nothing can really overlap because there is no depth, there is nothing that can overlap. Everything is on a single plane with 2 directions and anything beyond that is visual sleight of hand.

The misdirection to convincingly make sprites jump is enough to cause a headache. Adding on the complications that come with advanced engineering like ramps leads to months of unpaid overtime just to solve the basic equation.

As these issues piled up, an obvious answer came into focus: 3D.

The switch instantly removed the need for a Vegas magic show and let everyone focus more on creating a good game.

However, and it’s a big however, that meant needing to recreate everything from the bottom up. the decision was difficult, but the inertia from the original code proved to not be worth the 2 dimensional hassle, and the team got to work on bringing depth to Sea of Greed.

For more insights into just how complicated things were and how nice it is to now be able to reach in new directions, check out Bandit’s post:

- [Wally's Wider than Flatland](https://www.reddit.com/r/seaofgreed/comments/ic21ml/wallys_wider_than_flatland/)

Stay tuned for more nuggets of news as we start to see a clearer and clearer image of the coastline ahead!
