---
layout: post
title: "Dev Diary 9 – A Quick and Overdue Update"
date: 2024-04-01 00:00:00 -0400
author: /u/SeaOfGreedDevs
summary: "Hi! Ahoy! Howdy! April fools! Gotcha! We haven’t done this in a while!."
description:
keywords:
---

Hi! Ahoy! Howdy! April fools! Gotcha! We haven’t done this in a while!

I’m just gonna get right into it. I wanna start off with a big apology.
It’s been a few YEARS since we shared ANYTHING.
Even after we said we would.
I know there’s quite a few of you who were genuinely excited for this thing, and for that reason I feel incredibly bad for our silence.
It's not the best feeling to let down about 5k people.
It's a good thing we didn’t take your money right?

The second thing I want to do is announce that Grant, the founder of this project, has stepped down as project lead.
He’s currently finishing college, and simply hasn’t been able to put in as much time towards SoG as he wanted.
Life’s taking him to some cool places, so wish him luck!
He's still gonna contribute music when he can, but the role of project lead now rests in my hands.

Hi, I’m Tubs! I’ve been working on SoG since the beginning alongside Grant and many others originally as a concept artist, then as a pixel artist, then as art lead and honorary programmer.
I’m gonna try to get things off the ground again so we can share cool stuff again no matter how small for real this time.
We were working on a lot of technical stuff, so we felt it would be a little underwhelming to share.
A lot of the really cool stuff was too spoilery sadly.

I wanna thank Grant for giving us this project.
It’s given all of us something fun to do at the end of the day, and a goal to look forward to.
Sometimes it's discouraging to be taking this long, but what keeps me going is the attachment I've grown towards the world and characters we’ve created, and the team behind it.
I think if we ever did call it quits, I'd still be messing around with our little sea.

That said, I’d like to share some of the more interesting stuff we’ve been doing!
Yes, we’ve been alive!
[Unfortunately, we simply refused to die.](https://imgur.com/a/lOzrqoD)

---

Intro Segment

The thing we’ve been chipping away at as of late is the intro / tutorial segment of the game.
In the segment, Wally learns how to walk, jump, attack, and chat aboard a dodgy vessel making a one-way trip to the ghastly Sea of Greed.
Smooth sailing, surely.

Technical stuff we hammered out for this includes the cutscene system, boss fights, loot drops, ingame time, scene transitions, and button prompts.

[Here’s some work-in-progress screenshots](https://imgur.com/a/yp6nedR)

[And here’s what the boat sounds like.](https://youtu.be/5loMdMelM5c)

---

Inventory

[A while back, we got the Inventory built out with an action menu and a tooltip and to show Wally’s insightful thoughts about the junk he finds.](https://i.imgur.com/vAx7jT9.png)
It's part of Wally’s logbook, which also contains his quests, maps, and info about his crewmates.
If you played the playtest all the way through, you'll know Wally can dual wield.
What we didn't show is that he can have 2 extra weapons holstered which can be swapped out on the fly so you can achieve your dream of unloading 4 blunderbusses in quick succession directly into the face of some unsuspecting chump.
We wanted to make the book feel more personal, so there’ll be little doodles made by Wally and his friends in the margins.

---

Mapmaking

[Here’s a look at the area directly after the intro.](https://imgur.com/a/OqV7b4i)
Wally ends up here and tries to figure out how to leave as quickly as possible.
If you’ll remember, this is a [3d game masquerading as a 2d game](https://youtu.be/pvkRCGTC0H4), so figuring out how to make that happen has been interesting.
Did you know that Wally technically walks faster in the z directions?
Since he’s walking along a plane viewed at a 45 degree angle, his up and down movement appears to be slower than his side to side movement.
To make it appear like he’s walking in 2d space, his z velocity is multiplied by the square root of 2.
This goes for many things too.
There is a gap between each row of tiles that’s the tile size multiplied by the square root of 2 in order to make them line up properly.
Anyways.

---

That’s All

For now.
Whether you’re just dropping by, or stuck around with us this long, thank you and see you in 2 months!

-tubs
